# 1. Validator Staking and Node operators

## Overview

- Whitelisted actors can stake MOCA for a defined period to operate a validator node
- Node operators receive vested rewards, esMOCA
- esMoca has multiple redemption options, see esMOCA.md

> Note: After the initial 18-24-month period, the network may transition to permissionless validator onboarding, delegated proof of staking

## Validator Whitelisting & Node Requirements

**Whitelisting**

- selection is off-chain: select entities will be whitelisted as per BD agreements
- translating that onchain: we will whitelist their address to allow interaction with relevant contracts

Whitelisted address is allowed to call privileged functions to stake the required MOCA, and other on-chain actions required to flag themselves as a valid node operator.

**Node Requirements**

Validators stake MOCA for a period to be eligible to run a node:

- Lockup period
- Amount of MOCA required

*UNCLEAR*

- how would the whitelisted address go about running an actual node?
- should both lockup and amount be updatable? if so, only forward-looking?

## Validator Emissions

There are 2 sources of rewards for Validators

1. Direct validator emissions
2. Verification fees [Potentially]

In point 1, validators will be distributed esMOCA directly.

In point 2, validators are able to stake their esMOCA to obtain veMOCA:

- With veMOCA, they can vote on credential pools, and potentially receive rewards from voting.
- Assuming the pool they voted on has non-zero votes for that voting period.

Both rewards will be expressed in $esMOCA.
> esMoca is escrowed MOCA; has vesting attached

*UNCLEAR*

- *How are Direct validator emissions distributed?*
- *How much rewards per validator?*

## Slashing

- Malicious behavior results in loss of staked $MOCA
- Only principal is slashed; rewards untouched.

*UNCLEAR*

- *how much is slashed each time? can this be a global immutable constant?*
- *Minimum stake requirements must be maintained, so what happens when slashed?*

## Delegation

Delegation of $MOCA in the validators is not permitted in this model.

## Future Considerations

- Implementation of delegated proof of stake
- Transition to permissionless validator onboarding
- Dynamic adjustment of emissions based on network activity