# 2. AIT KIT and Verification payments

- verifiers deposit MOCA here for verifiction fees
- it wil be deducted, as txns come in
- can set issuer for credential

## Background

The network facilitates credential verification through a marketplace connecting issuers (data providers) and verifiers (applications). Issuers provide credentials based on schemas (e.g., credit scores), while verifiers use these credentials to verify user data for specific outcomes (e.g., age verification for lending). Verifiers compensate issuers for this service.

- Credential Schema: Standardized template for verifying credentials (e.g., credit scores, age verification, income proof)
- Issuers: data providers of one or more schemes. E.g. Credit Bureau for credit scores
- Verifiers: applications looking to verify specific data points, credentials of a user to determine entry or some outcome

**Whitelisting actors**

- Issuers will be onboarded and whitelisted by us
- There can be multiple whitelisted issuers for the same schema
- Verifiers must specify (in advance) which issuer's credentials they will accept for verification of a specific schema

Verification fees are split across the different network stakeholders.

## Verification Fee distribution

When a verifier pays a verification fee, it is distributed among three parties: issuers, voters, and the treasury.
Verification fees primarily goes to the Issuers [since they supply data].
Fees are paid in MOCA.

**Fee distribution amongst different stakeholders**

- Voters   -> 20% 
- Treasury -> 10%
- Issuers  -> 70%
- Referrers -> ?

Issuers can divert a portion of fees to referrers. This is optional commission.
I.e. issuers can divert 10% to referrers and take-home 60%.

veMOCA voters earn a small portion of verification fees from schemas they voted on. This is to facilitate voting activity.
Voting will be explaining in the next document.

Everyone receives their portion of the fee split in MOCA; except voters.
Voters receive it in esMOCA.

*Unclear*

```smlj
how do issuers allocate to referrers?

1. on a per address basis?
2. define a global portion which gets equally split across all referrers?
```

### Voters getting verification fees

- voters vote on pool that they expect to generate the most fees for the upcoming epoch
- consequently, they receive a cut of verification fees generated in the next epoch, from those pools they voted on
- forward-looking: i vote in jan, i get the fees in feb for feb verification payments

*Unclear*

```
For a given credential schema, multiple issuers may exist within the same pool.
The question arises: should the voter's portion of verification fees be aggregated across all issuers within a schema and then distributed proportionally to voters who supported that credential pool?
```
