# 3. Credential Pools and Voting for Subsidies [veMOCA]

## Background

Verifiers receive esMOCA token subsidies proportional to their verification fee usage to incentivize network adoption.

I.e., they (might) be to claim a portion of their verification expenses in the form of cashback subsidies.

**Why might**

Distribution of subsidies is dictated by voting and FCFS claiming.

TLDR:

- Each unique schema type will have a corresponding voting pool on-chain
- veMOCA holders vote to allocate subsidies across the different pools
- Pools with more votes, get more subsidies
- Verifiers can claim subsidies, but on a first-come-first-served basis

Therefore, to claim subsidies, a verifier's credential pool must have received votes and thus allocated subsidies.
Additionally, said verifier must be early enough to claim said subsidies before other verifiers have claimed and exhausted the available supply.

If a credential pool receives no votes, verifiers using that schema will not receive any subsidies for their verification fees.

> The subsidy amount for verifiers is capped at their total verification fee payments, ensuring they cannot generate profit from the subsidy system

## Voting with veMOCA

- 28-day voting epochs
- Users can split their votes across multiple credential pools
- Voters are rewarded. Those that do not vote, do not get rewards. [!voters_get_nothing_frm_subsidies]
- End-of-epoch snapshot determines veMOCA voting power distribution [done at the end of 28th day]

1 vote = 1 veMOCA.
At the end of epoch, each pool's vote counter needs to be reset.

### Vote Delegation

- Users can delegate veMOCA to others, who can vote on their behalf
- Open system allowing anyone to become a Delegate Leader
- Leaders earn commission (e.g. 10%) on verification fees from voted pools
- Flexible delegation allowing allocation to any available Leader

*Unclear*

```smlj
- Is the cut for vote delegation fixed?
- Can i delegate to multiple fellas at once?
```

## Distributing subsidies based on voting

For each pool, emissions received are calculated as:

`Emissions = (numOfVotesReceived / totalVotes) * totalEmissionsForPeriod`

- Total Emissions distributed can be different for each period; not fixed.
- Subsidies are distributed as esMoca

## Claiming Subsidies

- somehow there exists a contract which is updated each time a Verifier makes a verification
- this contract tracks the total amount of verification fees paid per credential schema, for each voting epoch.
- based on this total amount, each verifier can claim a % amount in subsidies.
- claiming wil be on a FCFS basis till all allocated subsidies for that pool has been depleted

### What if there is surplus subsidies?

- Claimable by treasury after X no. of epochs
- set deadline in number of epochs
- deadline can be updatable

## Validators can participate in voting

- Validators can stake esMoca to receive veMOCA [esMOCA treated as Moca]
- Validators can then vote with veMOCA

## Extra subsidies for an epoch

What if we wanna throw in extra subsidies for a specific epoch?

- at a global lvl
- for a specific pool
- for a specific issuer